Hello.
Welcome back to A Course in Python.
So how did you go if the previous tutorial do enjoy creating variables and was it quite easy to create
new variables and then print them out on the screen.
Well if you find the editorial useful I am sure you're on the right track and that's the goal of this
course to break down learning Python into bite sized steps and so that with every step we get closer
and closer to the ultimate goal of being able to use Python for data analysis and doesn't.
All right so today we're going to learn how to work with wearables.
So first things first let's create a new chip in a notebook.
So we're going to go file your notebook and Python and this one is already saved.
We can just press control or comments save just to make sure and then I can close it.
And now we're going to call this one.
Working with variables.
So let's dive straight into it.
Let's create a variable an integer variable A which equals 10 and first shift enter and then create
an integer variable B which is 5.
Now let's look at some arithmetics and how can we perform honest medic's with these variables.
Well let's do the simple addition.
So we'll say see is a new variable and we want to add a plus b and put the value into C so would say
C equals A plus B and then click shift center and that will create a variable see the value of 10 plus
550.
Now if we want to look at division we'll do d equals B divided by a for instance 5 divided by 10 and
click a shift enter.
So now we've got those two variables.
Let's have a look at printing So we're already talking about printing in the previous tutorial Let's
revisit that topic so we're going to change this with a quick escape.
And I'm going to change this to markdown and two or three lines just to get the delimiter.
And now I'm going to look at printing these variables on our screen.
So first we'll sort of see if we Princie you'll see that here we've got 15 as expected.
But the point I wanted to make here is that just typing in a value or a variable and then printing it
is a quick way of printing something the correct the proper way of printing something on your screen
is to use a print function and to say print and then brackets see.
So if you click enter here you'll see that this actually puts output on your screen as well.
Now the thing to note here is that printing is different in Python 3 so I'm going to say print is different
to pi.
And 2.7.
So that other version of Python that is no longer supported.
It used to have instead of brackets it would just have print as the statements are.
Looks like this.
It would be like that.
But if you try on this line you'll get an error because you need to use the print function now.
So just bear that in mind if you're using Python 2.7 then it will be different.
Or if you encounter code that is python 2.7 that will be one of the main differences that you'll be
able to spot and therefore you need to take care of that if you want that code to be transferable to
Python 3 and above.
So there is quite a few differences.
I'll point them out as we go through but there's only several main ones and actually it just so happens
that we're going to look at the next main one right now as well so parentless print.
And what you'll see is 0.5.
So we divided 5 by 10 and we got 0.5.
Now the difference here is that is in division in Python 2.7 what would happen is when you divide an
integer by an integer so these are both integers you get 5 by 10 you get zero point five.
It would just chop off all of the decimal points in the answer so the answer would be an integer as
well with just the chopped of decimal points or would be zero in this case.
But in our case you can see it's 0.5.
So that is different to Paice and 2.00 And so we'll just type that in here.
As a note division may actually make some space.
Division is different to Python 2.10.
So that's another thing to bear in mind that was changed in the newer versions of Python.
All right.
So question why is it better to use print.
Why can we just keep just typing the values out as we used to.
Well here's an example if I tried to type in C and then in that same cell I tried typing D.
So I just tried to run these together.
You'll see that only one of them gets printed out.
So if I want the correct approach then I would say print C print D.
Press enter and then both of them are getting printed.
So that's the behavior that we want and therefore what we get if we perform or type in the correct code
or the desired code that is intended for the platform rather than just using this script shortcut.
So it's always better to use this print statement if you actually want to print something if you're
just checking things and testing stuff out there.
This is an OK approach as well.
All right so that's how we can work with wearables.
It's pretty interesting how we quickly learned how to do all the arithmetic as you can see it's all
very simple stuff.
So to see an addition you can do subtraction multiplication division or integers and floats and also
other earthquake operations and then you can print.
So we talked a bit more about printing.
So what we're going to do now is we're going to look at some you know even more involved arithmetic
operations so we will just look at square root I'll show you how to run that one so let's change this
to markdown to run the square root operation.
We need to import the math module so this is what it will look like.
Important Math.
Now we'll talk about porting modules later on in the course this is just the first time we're encountering
it.
Just copy this code and it'll work as we write it out and then when the time comes we'll talk in more
detail about what modules are and how we import them.
So basically we imported a module that contained some functions that we want to access and one of them
is the square root function.
So now we can access it we can say math dot sqrt of let's say value the value that stored in a.
So we can actually use our variable that we created a as a argument for functions already.
Normally you would say like Matthes security or something like let's say 144 For instance right.
You'd run that you'd get 12.
What we're doing here is we're actually not just passing a value to the skurried we're passing the variable
itself.
In this case our variable which is a which has the value of 10 if we go up here we'll see that a has
the value of 10.
And so we can use this variable as the parameter for the security function so far on this.
You'll see that there is the square root of 10.
And again we can apply another function and again we haven't talked about functions yet this is running
way ahead but still a good quick preview of what we will have further down the course.
So basically what we're doing here is we're taking the value returned by the square root function and
we're supplying it to the round function which will around this value to the nearest whole number so
there we go that's just three.
OK.
And to finish off today's tutorial we're going to just quickly look at working with strings.
All right.
So let's have a look let's create two strings.
Greeting equals hello and name equals Bob.
As you can see I've got two lines in one cell and they can still work together as we saw previously
.
So that's another example of that.
So if we run that I've created two variables and now we can work with them.
We want to create a message which he calls greeting last name to far on that.
And then I print the message you'll see.
Hello Bob.
Of course this is two words so which separate them we're going to add just a space in between.
So as you can see where we've got a variable here then we've got a value just a space that's also a
string value and then the name.
So these are all three string values for n that you'll see.
Hello Bob appears over here.
So there we go that's how we work with variables.
Just some quick examples.
And as you can see it's all very trivial and most important it's all very logical stuff.
Good points to make here is that as you saw there's no semi-colons at the end so in some programming
languages you need to add a semi-colon after all you are operators in Python.
There is no need to do that.
It just simplifies the usage of this language.
So I would encourage you to quickly go through this and try create some of your own examples like especially
working with strings is fun and see what happens when you try to add a string and an integer or when
you try to add a float in a logical just practice it with a bit of examples because ultimately learning
programming language is about practice practice and practice about making mistakes about understanding
where the mistakes come from.
About exploring new things.
So these are the basics and give that a shot to see what cool examples you can come up with and I'll
see on dictatorial.
Until then happy coding